This is a write up on how I went about wiring up a GPS and some heated bits on my 2004 KTM 950 Adventure.


Heated Grips
The end goal:

I like the Symtec heated grips, as they allow more grip choices, easier grip replacement, and low cost. 

http://www.casporttouring.com/cst/motorcycle/SYMT/16011.html

I always buy my Symtecs from CalSportTouring, because I can drive up there to visit and the owner is a super nice guy.  I went with the kit that has a toggle, instead of the round rocker, for two reasons.  Most important, I've had the round rocker on another bike, and they have a life span of about 18 months in the best possible conditions.  Apart from that, I wasn't sure where I was mounting my switch, but I was pretty sure I would find a location would work with the toggle. 

First things first, take off the windscreen and both the upper shrouds.  After doing this sort of thing on a VFR800, a BMW Dakar, and a Ducati ST3, the KTM is really easy to take apart.



Here are the ACC1 (unswitched) and ACC2 (switched) wires in the KTM harness.  This is the right side of the headlight shroud, they were tucked up just behind the subframe.  Brown is the ground wire.



Placing the elements and the wires is pretty self explanatory. The only photo I took of that was blury. I used 1" heat shrink to insulate the clutch side bar, placed the wires a 10 o'clock on the clutch side and 2 o'clock on the throttle side.  The directions say 9 o'clock and 3 o'clock, but I wanted to rotate the meat of things to be a bit more on my palms. 



In the end, the included switch didn't matter, because I found DPDT on-off-on micro toggle switches on ebay.com for CHEAP.  I have this setup on my ST3, it's really sano and I think durable enough for dual sport use.  Yeah, the switch is tiny, but doesn't feel fragile.  If I break it, I'll have to do some soldering to replace, but I'm willing to risk that.



With this switch, my install point was the left side handlebar switch housing.  There's enough room internally to *barely* fit the wires.  The switches I found have really short terminal posts, which helps the wires clear the bar once installed.  This install requires drilling a small hole in the faceplate. I don't remember the bit size, basically as small as possible but still fitting the switch. In this photo you can also notice the shrink wrap on the clutch side bar.



Once that was drilled, I was fully committed, so it was time to wire up the switch.  I wanted to use 3 conductor, 22 gauge wire, bundled in black housing.  However, I also didn't want to order a 500ft roll, or wait 2 weeks for it arrive. I farted about with some landscaping wire and various bundled data cables, then decided to just braid some 22 gauge wire and be done with it.  I had done the same with my Ducati, using 3 black wires to keep it discrete.  This time I opted for colored wires.  The color choice was based on wire I have on hand, but since the colors don't make any sense on the Symtec kit, either, I didn't feel too bad.



Getting in between the posts to attach these was a bit tight, but it worked out in the end.  I decided to also clip off the 3 pins that were unused.  The third hand is invaluable for this sort of work.



Once that was done, I gently bent the soldered wires to the contour of the bar.  Here's a shot of the back of the switch, with wires routed out of the housing with the rest of the switch gear's wiring.



At this point I left the switch alone and routed all the wires.  It was pretty easy to follow everything else down to the steering head, and out the right side to where the ACC2 wires are. I decided to wire in to ACC2 (switched), since I don't see much need in having them on when the bike is off.  When I was done routing, I sanity checked the continuity through the switch circuit. This helped me remember which color I had wired to high (up) and low (down) on the switch.  It's not intuitive on the actual switch, when you set the toggle one way, current flow in through the center and out through the opposite post.  



Here's shot of everything once it's plugged in.  The blue from each element are paired (using the connector that came with the grips).  Same with the whites.  Then blue pairs are joined to crimped male connector on the switch's 'high' output wire.  Same for the white pairs, connecting them to the switch's 'low' output wire.  The symtec ground pairs (red) are wired together into a mail crimp connector and plugged into the ACC2 brown female.  The input wire to the switch gets a crimp male and connects to the ACC2 black/red female.


Time to fire it up and see if smoke comes out!  For testing, I hooked the switch input to ACC1 temporarily, so I wouldn't have to keep the key on while waiting for the grips to warm up.  After testing both high and low settings, put the switch input wire back to ACC2 hot and you're good to go.

Speaking of opposite, the symtec directions are printed wrong; BLUE is HIGH, WHITE is LOW.  The diagram in the directions is labeled the opposite.  If you have any doubt, measure resistance through each color, the hot run will have more resistance.  I discovered the mixup while testing the final connections.  It was kind of funny, really.  I meant to the grips for 5 min on low.  Then, I forgot they were on, and went upstairs for dinner. When I came back 45 minutes later, and had completely forgotten I left the switch on.  I casually rested my hand on what turned out to be an extremely hot element, and scared the pants off myself.

Anyway, with things tested and high/low connected correctly, there was not much left except to do except button things up.  This is what the left switch housing looks like when tightened down.  Here you can see the heating element is held temporarily in place with some e-tape.  I did that just to keep in in the right place while I sorted all the wire routing. This is more important with the throttle side, as you want to leave a loop of wire so the throttle can rotate back and not be restrained by the grip wiring.

The rest is dead easy.  Pull the backing of the sticker side of the elements and tack them down.  Next, put some glue on your grips, and quickly slide them into place.  You might want to tape over the holes in the end of your bars where the hand guard attaching bolts go, so you don't gum them up with glue.  It's probably best to leave the glue overnight before riding or running the grips.  For glue I used 3M Super77, but anything that can handle high temps should work.

As a bit of follow up, I found (also on ebay.com) some nice rubber covers that thread onto the micro toggle.  

Before installing these, I drilled a hole for the tab on the washer that keeps the switch from rotating in the hole.  I didn't drill this all the way through, just a millimeter or so into the plastic.


Then I put on the cover.  It looks pretty tight.  Not quite stock, but damn tidy, I'd say.


That's it.  There's some more bather about wiring up the heat controller for my electric vest, if you're interested in this sort of thing.


I love my heated vest.  After 25 years of riding without one, I feel like I've paid my dues.  Now, when the temperature is looking a chilly, I plug in and toast myself a little.  It's really a must have accessory for anyone who rides in temperatures below 60F.

When thinking about setting up my 950 Adventure with a heat controller, I decided to replicate the setup from my ST3.  This means wiring a single, portable control. I don't want to drill any holes in the bike's plastics, which the permanent mount requires.  They do have a 'semi-permanent' kit, which has wired remote switch separate from the control box.  I figured this would just require finding a mounting point for two things, so I went with the single portable that integrates the switch and control into one box.  My ST3 has the Gerbings controller, which I'm not crazy about. The knob shape is rounded, and there's no mark on the knob.  Also, the case itself is an odd shape, rather than square, which made it harder to mount.  I realize the portable kit is not really intended to be mounted, but for my project the FirstGear box is the best solution.


Like the ST3, I picked the clutch reservoir as the mounting point.  This affords easy adjustment, a flat surface to mount to, and is relatively out of harms way.  The box for the control itself is pretty sturdy, so in a tip over I'm pretty sure it will just come free and not do any damage.

Part of the solution is velcro When placing 2 sided stick on velcro, I was careful to not cover the screw holes on the clutch reservoir. For a street bike a velcro-only solution might be fine, but with off-road duty planned, I decided some back up for the velcro would be wise.  Rather than zip ties, I used safety wire, which gives the install a cleaner look.  This required drilling 4 small holes in the lid of the controller's case.  I inserted 2 loops of wire through the four holes, securing the ends underneath the clutch master piston.  



Wire routing was pretty easy.  The connection to the battery follows the rest of the control wires down to the headstock of the frame.  The connection to the vest is wrapped a few times around the bar, to take up slack.  This will require the use of a 1' coiled male-male coax extension cord, but I like self tensioning slack afforded by the coiled cable, so I'm ok with this addition.



Here's where things get a bit more custom.  The battery box on the 950A is pretty snug, so I didn't feel there was a lot of room for running multiple wires in to connect to power.   I could have used the ACC1 or ACC2 power, but I wanted to leave those free for GPS and heated grips.  I had already wired an SAE connector to the battery, to allow connection to a BatteryMinder.  I decided to extend this connection to the heated grips, by converting the ring terminal end of the FirstGear wire to an SAE plug.  To do this, I cut about 2' off the end of a 6' SAE extension cable.  I then shortened the battery connection that came with the kit, and solder that to the piece of SAE cable.  When done, I had a 3' cable that is SAE on one end, coax female on the other, with an inline fuse holder on the positive wire.

When I need to charge the bike, I just disconnect the SAE plugs, and plug the charger into the wire that's attached to the battery.  When it's time to ride, I just reconnect the SAE plugs and tuck it behind the lower plastic, so you never know it's there.  A bit of hassle just to save space in the battery box, but to me it was worth the small amount of soldering to make it work.

The wire runs along the coolant hose, through the frame just behind the steering head, and out into the front 
cowl with all the control wires.  There's a bit of slack, which will make it easy to check or replace the fuse if things go funny.  I took up the slack with a few folds and a zip tie, tucking the bundle up near the headlight.

The harness and controller are joined by a coax plug, which in theory would make the controller portable.  I doubt I'll ever pull it off, but didn't see any harm in leaving the coax plugs in place.



I have a Zumo 550, which is a pretty good GPS for general motorcycle use.  Over the last 4 bikes I've owned, I have found GPS mounting can be a bit of a challenge.  Generally I use a RAM mount, but if you can't get a RAM ball fixed to a convenient place, you end up having to get creative.  I've tried the RAM mount that inserts in the headset of most bikes, but found it was impossible to make tight enough.  Eventually, the mount would rotate.  I also have created a couple different solutions using RAM balls that fit underneath an exiting bolt.  Those are find if a bolt ends up available in the right place, but that depends on the bike.  


For my 2009 KTM 950 Adventure, I wanted some that was easy to access while being off road friendly.  These means a solid mount that won't easy bump or vibrate loose, and won't get knocked off in a trail related incident.  After a bit of studying the options, I decided to try and make a bracket to fit underneath the bolts for the handlebar clamps.  

First, I took a few measurements of the bike, and of the mounting dock for the Zumo, and made a quick template out of cardboard.  I ended up deciding on 1/8" aluminum plate, starting with a piece that is 4.5" x 2".  I went to buy this from a local metal working shop.  Sad thing is, when I got the shop, I had forgotten my template.  Due to a faulty short term memory, I ended up with a plate that was 4" x 2.5"... crap!

Not to worry.  After a sufficient stream of cuss words, I ended up finding a way to make it work by cutting the plate in half.  I carried on with the template, marking the holes and drilling.  After mounting it up for the first time, I realized the bracket's edges stuck out quite a bit, enough that they might interfere with the  cables and control wiring that come off the bars.  To remedy this, I modified my design again by trimming the plate into two L-shaped pieces.

A little fine sand paper took the burrs and sharp edges down.  The final product is not exactly beautiful, but it gets the job done. 

Wiring was pretty easy.  I had the front cowls off for my heated vest and grips wiring project, so it was easy to get at ACC2 (unswitched) on the right side of the headlight.  I traded the ring terminals on the zumo wire for bladed male crimp connectors, which fit nicely inside the rubber covers over the female connectors on the ACC2 wire.  I like having my GPS unswitched, which lets me turn the bike off keep the GPS (and music) running, and will also charge the battery without the ignition being on.

The end result is seems pretty good.  It has worked well in the street, and I'm hoping will be just as good in the dirt.  For standing, I may want to relocate to the top of the dash, but by then I may want a more off-road friendly GPS, anyway. 

-gps power and mounting point for my Zumo that is centered to left of center and doesn't obscure the gauges.
